*Future of Talon and Android L*

If you have been following my work with the L version of Talon, then you knew that this was coming, so just to start it off here, I will say this:

_The L version of Talon will remain Android L and above only, it will not be coming to KitKat or below. It will be released as a seperate, paid app ($3.99) on the Play Store._

Some of you will hate me for this, that I know, so here are some of my reasons/ideals as to why this will be the case:

*Ability to Support the Classic Talon*
With computers being controlled by programmers, there are of course some very powerful things that can be done with them for coding purposes. One of those things is version control. It allows me to merge features between current and older versions of our apps. I don't have to manually move one feature from one version of the app to the other. This is pretty key because it means I can easily support not only the new Android L version of the app, but its older brother as well, the classic version of Talon.

They will continue to have similar features, and new features put into one version, will make their way to the other version with just a few keystrokes. So it isn't like the original will ever be lacking or stop receiving updates. It will continue to be supported just as well as Android L's version.

I also have no plans of revoking the tokens on Android L's preview version. So hey, if that one works well enough for you, go right ahead and continue with it, I see no reason to stop that.


*Design and User Experience*
Google releases new version of their OS because they are better. They have new features and complete other features. Developers have new toys to play with and new looks to compliment. With Android L and material design, it is pretty obvious that this is the case. With L, apps will be more efficent, powerful, and stylish. This is obviously a pretty special case with L. It is a game changer and by far the biggest update Android has ever seen.

Material design is the future of Android, but it is much more than just spicing up the user interface. It is about designing apps that anyone can use, that not only look good, but feel good and work well too. The Material Design guidelines aren't just about changing the look of your app, they are about re-imagining what is possible in your app and how the user interacts with those possibilites, and that, in my opinion, is pretty exciting.

By supporting all the older version of Android - when there is such a major leap between KitKat and L - you are creating a fragmented experience, not all users will enjoy your app the way you want them too or the way it is designed (Ex: KitKat's new transparency or L's material theme and animation capabilities). With the gap as large as it is, that isn't something I think users should deal with when using Talon. The experience should be consistent throughout your device, no matter what device you have.


*New API's*
I kind of talked about this in the above section, but with a new Android, it isn't just new styles and looks, the backend of your apps can change dramatically as well. With the hundreds of new API's Google has released for Android L, so many new things are possible that couldn't be done before. It goes back to the consitent experience again and what developers can do with their toys.


*Userspace*
With the current version of Talon, Google Play provides numerous usage statistics that developers can take advantage of. Talon is sitting at _*85%*_ of it's users on KitKat or above. This is an astounding number to me, but makes sense. The people using our apps, want power and functionality. They get that with the latest and greatest. So I am not so scared of the adoption rate of Android L. The latest KitKat numbers are showing that OEM's are updating, and that is great for both users and developers.

I like to think that Klinker App's users are some of the most advanced on Android, and these numbers and adoption rate go to support that theory.


*Software Patterns*
This one has been toying at the back of my mind for quite some time now, and it is probably the one that people will get mad at me about. It is also something that I am quite sure other developers feel the same way about.

When Windows 9 comes out, is it going to be a free upgrade? Do you have to buy the new version of Office every few years when it gets an update?

You might say that these programs are bigger than mine and warrent the new price. You might say mine is to much of a niche program for this type of thing. I disagree. I work just as hard as them on it, if not harder. I am a 20 year old college student balancing class, extra-curricular activities, and managing my own business. I don't have free time, what little time I do have is spent on my computer answering emails and getting back to customers. Every day, as our apps grow more and more, it gets harder and harder to manage these things. It isn't like this remake of Talon has taken me a few days, this has been months of work and perfecting. It has been worth every second so far though.

When you buy a program for your computer, you expect to have to pay for major upgrades. This is something any developer would love to see in mobile, but it also completely against what mobile apps have been since their inception, with a few exceptions in iOS (Tweetbot being one of them). This is the way the Android L update of Talon will work though and I am not scared of breaking the trend.



So, put yourself in a developers shoes, think about our work and what we do, then you decide if the upgrade is worth it. If not, then don't get the L version of Talon. Boycott me, flame me all you want, I think I will have just as many people understanding the workers side of it as not caring about our side of it. I always find it astounding when people email us or post a reveiw asking why this or that isn't free and why they should have to pay for it. I'm not sure, but most don't work for free. 

You bought it once already? Thank you so much for the support, it really does mean a lot that we have so many awesome users, but this isn't the same app you have used in the past and you will notice that right off the bat when you start using it. The new version of Talon will be a paid upgrade.

I love what I have done and I hope you agree. Before Android L's release, I will continue to add new features, clean up and improve existing ones, and squash any of the bugs I can find.


Wow... That was a long post, if you made it through, thank you and I hope that you see and agree with the vision that I have for this app.

If you don't agree or see my vision, I have no doubt more than a few will be willing to voice that displeasure.

Talon has a bright future and I couldn't be more excited about where this is going :)

#keepsliding