*Talon Pull*

Here it is folks, in my opinion, this kind of thing is the coolest feature to come to third party Twitter apps.

Talon Pull is a service that I developed using Twitter's Streaming API's to simulate push notification functionality. You will automatically be notified immediately when another user mentions you, favorites or retweets you status, direct messages you, or follows you. It will post a notification immediately to your device and save that notification so that it can be viewed later from the "Interactions Drawer" on the right side of any drawer activities.

This is the ONLY way with the current API's to get the names and ID's of users that favorite and retweet your statuses, so if you care about that information, then you better get this enabled! I talk more about the development side of it in the FAQ found here if you care about that kind of stuff:

https://plus.google.com/117432358268488452276/posts/31oSKEmMFnq

Right now, it seems that there aren't really any ill effects to enabling this. At first, I thought that it would probably effect your battery life, but that doesn't seem to be the case. If your results differ from mine though, shoot me a line and we will try to diagnos your problem. You can view more about how Talon effects battery life here:

<Link to battery life FAQ>

The last thing to note is that this service puts a persistant notification in your notification shade. This creates a foreground service so that the Android system knows NOT to kill this process at all costs! I have tried to do it without, but I don't feel comfortable turning off the foreground service because you would never know if it is running or not, and a service like this could potentially be killed quickly because of the amount of resources it could use if you have a lot of interactions! So you will have to live with the notification, it doesn't appear on your status bar at all and the priority is minimum, so you won't notice it much at all. It is also helpful to have the stop button available all the time, in case you want to close it quickly. Touching this notification is a quick way to start the app as well.

Now what are you waiting for?! This is an awesome feature and I would highly suggest that you turn it on :) have fun!

(And drat, Falcon beat me by just a few days to this option! Props to him, it works great!)


